README.md, before:

# WhatsApp HD Upscaler

WhatsApp only offers HD quality when the long side of an image is above roughly 1600px. Many photos — especially screenshots, compressed images, or anything resized for web — fall below this and get silently compressed further. This tool brings them all up to 2560px on the long side before you send.

Download the prebuilt exe: [here](https://github.com/Ross0907/WhatsApp-HD-image-converter/releases/download/v1/wa_hd_upscale.exe)

## Usage

Drop `wa_hd_upscale.exe` into any folder containing images and double-click it. It will scan the folder, upscale anything below the threshold, and save each file back to its original format and extension. A copy of every original is preserved in a `wa_originals` subfolder before any changes are made.

Images that are already large enough are skipped automatically.


## Supported formats

JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP, TIFF, WebP, TGA, ICO, PCX, PPM/PGM/PBM, SGI, AVIF, HEIC, HEIF, EXR, HDR, DDS, XBM, and more. Any format readable by Pillow is handled.


## Building from source

**Requirements:** Python 3.8 or later with pip.

1. Clone the repository and open a terminal in the project folder.

2. Install dependencies and build the executable:
   ```
   build_exe.bat
   ```
   This installs Pillow and PyInstaller, compiles a single portable `wa_hd_upscale.exe`, and cleans up build artifacts automatically.

3. The finished `wa_hd_upscale.exe` will appear in the same folder. It has no external dependencies and can be copied anywhere.

If you prefer to run the script directly without building:
```
pip install pillow
python wa_hd_upscale.py
```


## Configuration

The following constants at the top of `wa_hd_upscale.py` can be adjusted before building:

| Constant | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `TARGET_LONG_SIDE` | `2560` | Target resolution in pixels for the long side |
| `JPEG_QUALITY` | `95` | JPEG save quality (1–95) |
| `BACKUP_DIR_NAME` | `wa_originals` | Name of the backup subfolder |


## Notes

- PSD files cannot be written by Pillow, they are saved as TIFF instead.
- Animated GIFs are processed on the first frame only.
- The tool will NOT change an image that is already above the target resolution.

Commit message:

Update README with improved description
Clarified the explanation of the tool's functionality and its purpose for image upscaling.

README.md, after:

# WhatsApp HD Upscaler

WhatsApp only offers HD quality when the long side of an image is above roughly 1600px. Many photos, especially screenshots, compressed images, or anything resized for web, fall below this and get silently compressed further. This tool brings them all up to 2560px on the long side so it can be uploaded at a higher resolution by upscaling to whatsapp HD threshold.

Download the prebuilt exe: [here](https://github.com/Ross0907/WhatsApp-HD-image-converter/releases/download/v1/wa_hd_upscale.exe)

## Usage

Drop `wa_hd_upscale.exe` into any folder containing images and double-click it. It will scan the folder, upscale anything below the threshold, and save each file back to its original format and extension. A copy of every original is preserved in a `wa_originals` subfolder before any changes are made.

Images that are already large enough are skipped automatically.


## Supported formats

JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP, TIFF, WebP, TGA, ICO, PCX, PPM/PGM/PBM, SGI, AVIF, HEIC, HEIF, EXR, HDR, DDS, XBM, and more. Any format readable by Pillow is handled.


## Building from source

**Requirements:** Python 3.8 or later with pip.

1. Clone the repository and open a terminal in the project folder.

2. Install dependencies and build the executable:
   ```
   build_exe.bat
   ```
   This installs Pillow and PyInstaller, compiles a single portable `wa_hd_upscale.exe`, and cleans up build artifacts automatically.

3. The finished `wa_hd_upscale.exe` will appear in the same folder. It has no external dependencies and can be copied anywhere.

If you prefer to run the script directly without building:
```
pip install pillow
python wa_hd_upscale.py
```


## Configuration

The following constants at the top of `wa_hd_upscale.py` can be adjusted before building:

| Constant | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `TARGET_LONG_SIDE` | `2560` | Target resolution in pixels for the long side |
| `JPEG_QUALITY` | `95` | JPEG save quality (1–95) |
| `BACKUP_DIR_NAME` | `wa_originals` | Name of the backup subfolder |


## Notes

- PSD files cannot be written by Pillow, they are saved as TIFF instead.
- Animated GIFs are processed on the first frame only.
- The tool will NOT change an image that is already above the target resolution.
